well howdy there Internet people its Bo
again so tonight we're going to talk
about the World Economic Forum at Davos
and what they're talking about if you
don't know what this is it's basically
were the world's brightest economic
minds to get together and they talk
about the issues they see coming they
have described this year forum as
talking about the peak decade because a
lot of things that we are used to are
going to end that's their prediction now
this really is a let's talk about it
video because I will say I'm not an
economist this is not my area of
expertise this is something I follow and
I enjoy following but normally when I
make these videos actual economists come
along in the comment section and provide
clarification and nuance to what I'm
saying because I can give you broad
strokes and not details so what are they
going to talk about at the World
Economic Forum first tariffs they're bad
they're taking the toll we all knew this
we talked about this on this channel
repeatedly the Federal Reserve Princeton
and Columbia recently released a study
that found about 100 percent of the cost
of the tariffs were paid by American
citizens importers and consumers there
have been so many studies on this that
The Wall Street Journal recently ran an
article that said how many of these
studies do we need that was pretty much
I think that was actually that headline
how many tariffs studies do we need
something along those lines this is
creating worry among them because it
slows economic growth and it's bad for
all countries not just the country
imposing the tariffs central banks are
gonna kind of be done
they were successful in stopping the
Great Recession of 2008 from turning
into a Great Depression but now they're
kind of maxed out if there is another
financial crisis which there will be
eventually and we're already seeing
signs that they kind of indicate it
could happen at any moment
states will have to loosen monetary
policies and change their their policies
about this and that basically central
banks are kind of are kind of on the out
peak oil is expected in 2035 that means
there are a whole lot of industries that
are based around that that are going to
fail because the demand is going to
decrease
therefore production will decrease
therefore businesses will go out of
business and people will lose jobs add
into that core production is expected to
decline partly because of the emergence
of mega cities that have the
infrastructure to allow people that live
in them not to have cars and then on top
of that we will see the switch to
electric and renewables so all of those
companies that were too big to fail will
start failing climate change we are
passing bad waypoints left and right and
we do not expect to see net 0 for
another 30 years and this is obviously
going to cause economic strain on
infrastructure because of natural
disasters and so on and so forth they're
going to be more older people than
younger people what this means is there
will be less people working to support
these safety nets for those that are
older Social Security things like that
may become strained
there is a Stanford professor who I
guess is going to be there who is
predicting a population decline because
people have less money they are having
less children therefore there will be
less people to sustain capitalism income
inequality is a big one that they're
going to talk about the gap between
those at the top and those at the bottom
and because of that they are expecting
higher corporate taxes and they kind of
expect this because currently 62 people
will have the same amount of wealth as
the bottom 3.6 billion people all of
this leads to the end of capitalism
talking about peak capitalism you have
CEOs discs discussing paying attention
to stakeholders instead of shareholders
stakeholders are being you customers and
employees this opens the door for what
many people are terrified of the dreaded
S word socialism in order for these
companies to still exist they're gonna
have to start paying closer attention to
those people who allow the companies to
exist the consumer in order to do that
well socialism comes into play that
leads to the end of globalization now
they're saying that we're going to start
seeing the signs I'm in the camp a small
camp of people who think that this
really started ending around 2001 when
the military might of the polar nations
became questioned and used for other
ends that led to kind of the end of
globalization that's where it started
these guys are saying it's starting now
and that we will see a decline in free
trade because of that countries will
become more protectionist and that
eventually countries will have to choose
a state capitalist system or an open
society system with free markets so
basically the United States can choose
between China or the more socialistic
countries of northern Europe they're
predicting that three major powers which
are kind of more like alliances emerge
from this China and its buddies the
United States and its buddies meaning
Canada and Mexico and the European Union
these are their topics this is what
they're going to be talking about this
is what they're going to be trying to
figure out it seems like a lot of doom
and gloom however if you look at past
notes you'll realize it's pretty much
always doom and gloom and normally these
guys do figure a way out the people who
attend these things are pretty smart and
they find a way to cushion thing and
negative effects of all of this some of
it as far as the environmental stuff
they're kind of saying that yeah it's
just going to be bad and because it's
going to be bad it will affect the
economy in a large way and but I do find
it incredibly interesting that some of
the brightest economic minds in the
world are pretty much at this point
saying that socialism is inevitable for
a whole lot of countries the United
States included I cannot wait to see the
comment section especially The
Economist's that follow this clusen
gives it gives us some more insight I
basically have notes that they're going
to talk about
no more anyway it's just a thought y'all
have a good night